README.md, before:

# Podcasts
![](https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)
## Feeds
A collection of self-hosted podcast feeds for my own use, to ensure all the hottest 'casts are preserved.

## Scripts
A collection of scripts to process podcast metadata and generate RSS feeds.

For example, you can onboard a new podcast by either:
* building your own CSV and running the `csv2rss.sh` script
* taking an existing feed and generating a CSV using `rss2csv.sh` and then running the `csv2rss.sh` script

You also can feed your CSV into `selfhost.sh` to upload the files to your own S3 bucket. 

CSVs detailing each episode must be of the form "title,description,date,url" using the delimiter of your choice. 

### csv2rss.sh
This script takes a CSV file of podcast episodes along with other podcast details and outputs an XML feed file.
The CSV must be of the form: title,description,date,url. The description is optional and can be left blank.
You then pass in details like the podcast title and description to the script as named args

```shell
 $ pwd 
 /Users/REDACTED/REDACTED/podcasts

 $ cat ./feed/shower-cast/feed.csv
 title;description;date;url
 Welcome to the cast;Our very first epsiode!;Sat, 24 May 2025 03:21:23 GMT;https://example.com/ep1.mp3
 Hot and cold;The second one;Sat, 31 May 2025 05:21:23 GMT;https://example.com/ep2.mp3
 
 $ ./script/csv2rss.sh ./feed/shower-cast/feed.csv \
     --delimiter ";" \
     --title "Shower Cast" \
     --description "The hottest takes in the coldest showers"
```

This should generate a valid XML file in the shower-cast directory:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<rss xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xmlns:content="http://purl.org/rss/1.0/modules/content/" xmlns:wfw="http://wellformedweb.org/CommentAPI/" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" xmlns:itunes="http://www.itunes.com/dtds/podcast-1.0.dtd" xmlns:googleplay="http://www.google.com/schemas/play-podcasts/1.0" xmlns:spotify="http://www.spotify.com/ns/rss" xmlns:podcast="https://podcastindex.org/namespace/1.0" xmlns:media="http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/" version="2.0">
  <channel>
    <atom:link href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Stephan5/podcasts/refs/heads/main/feed/shower-cast/feed.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/>
    <title>Shower Cast</title>
    <description>&lt;p&gt;The hottest takes in the coldest showers &lt;/p&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;p&gt;Generated using Stephan5/podcasts.&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    <language>en-gb</language>
    <copyright>none</copyright>
    <link>https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts/tree/main/feed/shower-cast</link>
    <image>
      <url>https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Stephan5/podcasts/refs/heads/main/feed/shower-cast/image.jpg</url>
      <title>Shower Cast</title>
      <link>https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts/tree/main/feed/shower-cast</link>
    </image>
    <generator>Stephan5/podcasts</generator>
    <ttl>1440</ttl>
    <lastBuildDate>Sat, 24 May 2025 00:03:36 +0100</lastBuildDate>
    <pubDate>Sat, 24 May 2025 00:03:36 +0100</pubDate>
    <item>
      <link>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</link>
      <guid>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</guid>
      <title>1: Welcome to the cast</title>
      <description>Our very first epsiode!&lt;br/&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;a href="https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank"&gt;Generated using Stephan5/podcasts&lt;/a&gt;</description>
      <pubDate>Sat, 24 May 2025 03:21:23 GMT</pubDate>
      <enclosure url="https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2" length="103016" type="audio/mpeg"/>
    </item>
    <item>
      <link>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</link>
      <guid>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</guid>
      <title>2: Hot and cold</title>
      <description>The second one&lt;br/&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;a href="https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank"&gt;Generated using Stephan5/podcasts&lt;/a&gt;</description>
      <pubDate>Sat, 31 May 2025 05:21:23 GMT</pubDate>
      <enclosure url="https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2" length="103016" type="audio/mpeg"/>
    </item>
  </channel>
</rss>
```

Requirements:
 * xmllint (brew install libxml2)
 * xmlstarlet (brew install xmlstarlet)

## TODO
- [x] Generate for all directories
- [x] Add script for append arbitrary pre-formatted items 
- [x] Add some rudimentary tests
- [x] Only bump `pubDate` and `lastBuildDate` if there are changes to the file (if it already exists)
- [x] Add script to convert CSV to self-hosted 
- [x] Support local file URLs in selfhost.sh
- [x] Pull out common functions
- [x] remove need for repo-dir argument in scripts
- [x] Onboard RSK XFM, Athletico Mince, and TFTM
- [x] Onboard The Basement Yard
- [ ] Allow output directory / file to be passed in as an argument
- [ ] Support updating existing feeds with new episodes from external feed
- [ ] In csv2rss.sh, write out content-length back to CSV and make it optional on input and skip CURL HEAD request if provided.
- [ ] In rss2csv.sh, extract content-length from the XML and add to CSV

Commit message:

Save content length to CSV to speed up refreshes.

README.md, after:

# Podcasts
![](https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)
## Feeds
A collection of self-hosted podcast feeds for my own use, to ensure all the hottest 'casts are preserved.

## Scripts
A collection of scripts to process podcast metadata and generate RSS feeds.

For example, you can onboard a new podcast by either:
* building your own CSV and running the `csv2rss.sh` script
* taking an existing feed and generating a CSV using `rss2csv.sh` and then running the `csv2rss.sh` script

You also can feed your CSV into `selfhost.sh` to upload the files to your own S3 bucket. 

CSVs detailing each episode must be of the form `title,description,date,url,length` using the delimiter of your choice. 

### csv2rss.sh
This script takes a CSV file of podcast episodes along with other podcast details and outputs an XML feed file.
The CSV must be of the form: `title,description,date,url,length`. The description and length (content length of audio file) is optional and can be left blank.
You then pass in details like the podcast title and description to the script as named args

```shell
 $ pwd 
 /Users/REDACTED/REDACTED/podcasts

 $ cat ./feed/shower-cast/feed.csv
 title;description;date;url
 Welcome to the cast;Our very first epsiode!;Sat, 24 May 2025 03:21:23 GMT;https://example.com/ep1.mp3
 Hot and cold;The second one;Sat, 31 May 2025 05:21:23 GMT;https://example.com/ep2.mp3
 
 $ ./script/csv2rss.sh ./feed/shower-cast/feed.csv \
     --delimiter ";" \
     --title "Shower Cast" \
     --description "The hottest takes in the coldest showers"
```

This should generate a valid XML file in the shower-cast directory:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<rss xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom" xmlns:content="http://purl.org/rss/1.0/modules/content/" xmlns:wfw="http://wellformedweb.org/CommentAPI/" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" xmlns:itunes="http://www.itunes.com/dtds/podcast-1.0.dtd" xmlns:googleplay="http://www.google.com/schemas/play-podcasts/1.0" xmlns:spotify="http://www.spotify.com/ns/rss" xmlns:podcast="https://podcastindex.org/namespace/1.0" xmlns:media="http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/" version="2.0">
  <channel>
    <atom:link href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Stephan5/podcasts/refs/heads/main/feed/shower-cast/feed.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/>
    <title>Shower Cast</title>
    <description>&lt;p&gt;The hottest takes in the coldest showers &lt;/p&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;p&gt;Generated using Stephan5/podcasts.&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    <language>en-gb</language>
    <copyright>none</copyright>
    <link>https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts/tree/main/feed/shower-cast</link>
    <image>
      <url>https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Stephan5/podcasts/refs/heads/main/feed/shower-cast/image.jpg</url>
      <title>Shower Cast</title>
      <link>https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts/tree/main/feed/shower-cast</link>
    </image>
    <generator>Stephan5/podcasts</generator>
    <ttl>1440</ttl>
    <lastBuildDate>Sat, 24 May 2025 00:03:36 +0100</lastBuildDate>
    <pubDate>Sat, 24 May 2025 00:03:36 +0100</pubDate>
    <item>
      <link>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</link>
      <guid>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</guid>
      <title>1: Welcome to the cast</title>
      <description>Our very first epsiode!&lt;br/&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;a href="https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank"&gt;Generated using Stephan5/podcasts&lt;/a&gt;</description>
      <pubDate>Sat, 24 May 2025 03:21:23 GMT</pubDate>
      <enclosure url="https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2" length="103016" type="audio/mpeg"/>
    </item>
    <item>
      <link>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</link>
      <guid>https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2</guid>
      <title>2: Hot and cold</title>
      <description>The second one&lt;br/&gt;&lt;br/&gt;&lt;a href="https://github.com/Stephan5/podcasts" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank"&gt;Generated using Stephan5/podcasts&lt;/a&gt;</description>
      <pubDate>Sat, 31 May 2025 05:21:23 GMT</pubDate>
      <enclosure url="https://freetestdata.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Free_Test_Data_100KB_MP3.mp3?id=2" length="103016" type="audio/mpeg"/>
    </item>
  </channel>
</rss>
```

Requirements:
 * xmllint (brew install libxml2)
 * xmlstarlet (brew install xmlstarlet)

## TODO
- [x] Generate for all directories
- [x] Add script for append arbitrary pre-formatted items 
- [x] Add some rudimentary tests
- [x] Only bump `pubDate` and `lastBuildDate` if there are changes to the file (if it already exists)
- [x] Add script to convert CSV to self-hosted 
- [x] Support local file URLs in selfhost.sh
- [x] Pull out common functions
- [x] remove need for repo-dir argument in scripts
- [x] Onboard RSK XFM, Athletico Mince, and TFTM
- [x] Onboard The Basement Yard
- [ ] Allow output directory / file to be passed in as an argument
- [ ] Support updating existing feeds with new episodes from external feed
- [ ] In csv2rss.sh, write out content-length back to CSV and make it optional on input and skip CURL HEAD request if provided.
- [ ] In rss2csv.sh, extract content-length from the XML and add to CSV
